Collection(CID, date, SID)
Tuples here represent entire collections from a field trip, where 

'CID' is the collection ID
'date' is the starting date of the field trip, 
'SID' is the staff ID of the collector.
--------
Collected(CID, AN)
A tuple here represents the fact that collection 

'CID' includes artifact number 'AN'. 

A single collection usually contains multiple artifacts, and a single artifact may be aggregated from more than one collection.
--------
Artifact(AN, species, type, location, SID)
Tuples here represent single artifact collected in the field. 

'AN' is the artifact number, 'species' is the
scientific species name, 
'type' is one of tissue, image, model, or live, 
'location' is where it was collected,
'SID' is the staff number of the technician who maintains this artifact.
--------

Published(AN, journal, date)
A tuple here represents the fact that artifact 

'AN' was mentioned in scholarly 
publication 'journal' with
publication date 'date'.
--------

Staff(SID, name, email, rank, date)
These tuples represent a member of the institute's scientific staff.

'SID' is the staff ID, 
'name' is theirfull name, 
'email' is their professional email, 
'rank' is one of: technician, student, pre-tenure, or tenured,
'date' is the date when they attained that rank.
--------

COL(family)
A singleton tuple here means that 

'family; is a scientific zoological family name that appears in the Catalogue of Life.
--------

Genus(genus, family)
A tuple here means that 

'genus' is in family 'family'.
--------

Species(species, genus)
A tuple here means that 

'species' is in genus 'genus'.


-------------------------


Usable Operators: 

project, select, rename, natural join, naturaljoin, naturaljoin(condition), cartesianproduct, intersection, union, equals, _

today --> for current date

assignment 

logical operators


0 --> empty set 


1.Rationale: Performance reviews include seeing how current the work is of staff who have held their
current rank for a long time.  #todo

Query: Find the most recent collection date of any artifact collected by a staff member who has held
their current rank the longest. Keep ties.

-recent collection date 
- current rank longest


Today
project(date)Staff - 


project(d1)((select 'd1' < 'd2') ((rename 'date' as 'd1')(Staff) x (rename 'date' as 'd2')(Staff))) := LongestDate

--> Longest date of the staff



project-sid(select(Staff.date = LongestDate)Staff) := SidOfLongest

--> gets the sid of the staff with the longest rank duration



select(Collection.SID=SidOfLongest.SID) Collection := CollectionLongest

--> gets the row with the SID of the Longest rank duration 


project(date)CollectionLongest



3. Rationale: An artifact collected and maintained by the same staff may have some special requirements
that should be investigated. #todo

Query: Find all artifacts that were collected by the same staff who maintains them.

    project(Artifact.AN) [select(Artifact.SID = Collection.SID) Artifact natural join Collection


     --> gets rows of artifacts that have the same SIDS with staff)
     --> project the artifact numbers from that row


4. Rationale: Identify multi-talented field workers.

Query: Find all staff who have collected at least 3 artifacts from every species in some family.


5. Rationale: Which publications might have some specialized niche focus?

Query: Find all publications that have used exactly 2 of our artifacts. #todo

Published(AN, journal, date)


project(p1.journal) [select(p1.AN != p2.AN, p1.journal = p2.journal)[rename 'Published' as p1 * rename "Published as p2"]]
!= AtLeastTwice

project(p1.journal) [select(p1.AN != p2.AN != p3.AN, p1.journal = p2.journal = p3.jpurnal)[rename 'Published' as p1 * rename "Published as p2" * rename "Published as p3"]] != AtLeastThrice

AtleastTwice - AtleastThrice 



6. Rationale: Identify motherlode locations.
Query: Find all locations where at least one artifact from every family has been collected.



7. Rationale: Exclusively tissue sample collectors may need extra support for special reagents and shipping costs.

Query: Find all staff who have collected only tissue samples. #todo

Artifact(AN, species, type, location, SID)

select(type='tissue')Artifact natural join Collected naturaljoin Collection := TissuePpl --> rows with only tissue artifacts
select(type!='tissue') Artifact natural join Collected naturaljoin Collection := OtherArtifacts
TissuePpl - OtherArtifacts


project(SID)TissueArtifacts --> the SID of the collectors of such artifacts 



8. Rationale: Collection staff who should be encouraged to diversify their network.

Query: Find all staff pairs who have worked only with each other on collections.


9. Rationale: Track the inuence of a given staff member.

Query: Staff member SID1 is inuenced by staff member SID2 if (a) they have ever worked together on
a collection or (b) if SID1 has ever worked with a staff member who is inuenced by SID2. Find SIDs
of staff members inuenced by SID 42. #todo


































































